Enter this given chapter we are going to talk about logistic regression.
So in the last lecture we have been discussing linear regression and linear regression soul's regression
related problems.
So the prediction is a miracle.
They'll You for example have the features such as the size of the flat the number of bedrooms the number
of bathrooms and so on.
And in this model so linear regression is able to predict the price and the price is an American value.
OK so this was the problem we have been discussing that we have the size of the house and we have the
prices accordingly.
And as you can see with the help of the model we are able to assign a numerical value.
Basically the price of the house in dollars to every single size.
On the other hand logistic regression solves classification related problems.
Usually we use this method for binary classification when dealing with spam detection for emails.
The email can be spam or not.
So 0 or 1 or predicating if a customer will default on a loan or not the result can be 0 or 1 in default
or not.
So the outcome of a dependent variable is discrete instead of a numerical value we have seen for linear
regression linear regression is a continuous model logistic regression is a discrete model.
OK.
And what's more important that logistic regression assigns probabilities to given outcomes.
So the output is a probability that a given input belongs to a certain class.
For example if we have a given e-mail logistic regression is able to detect that.
OK.
There is 80 percent chance that this e-mail is a spam and 20 percent chance that it is not.
So it's very very important that we are dealing with probabilities with logistic regression which is
quite favorable because with the help of linear regression we are able to decide the price of the house.
But we are not able to assign a given probability.
We don't know that whether it is 10 percent accurate or it is 90 percent accurate.
And that's why the largest creation is quite useful because we are able to assign probabilities to given
out guns.
OK so let's consider the problem of credit risk.
For example you are working in an investment bank and your job is to decide whether the given client
will be able to pay back that debt or not.
Of course we have a dataset with some excellent authority varietals in this case.
The x is equal to the balance on the credit card.
$300 $500.
Eight hundred dollars and a thousand dollars.
And why were arguable is basically a binary class whether the client is able to pay back the debt or
not 0 or warm.
OK so in our example it is quite straightforward that if the given client do not have much money on
the credit card of course he or she will not be able to pay back the debt.
So that's why there's going to be zero.
The client will default on the other hand.
There is lots of lots of money on the credit card declined.
We'll be able to pay back the loan.
So that's why the outcome is going to be open.
It is a binary classification problem.
OK so if we apply linear regression for this classification problem it's not going to be a good idea.
Why.
First of all because if we apply a linear regression for this problem that it will have values outside
the 0 1 range.
So as you can see a linear regression can yield values smaller than 0 and they'll use greater than 1.
So what does it mean if we are dealing with a classification problem like this where 0 means that the
client has defaulted and or one means that the client is able to pay back the loan.
What is it mean that the linear regression result is minus one for example.
So of course we have to make sure that the results will be within the range 0 when warm.
The second problem that it is sensitive to outliers.
So if we use linear regression and we have an outlier as you can see the outlier is going to change
the linear regression line in a dramatic manner.
OK so we should use something like this instead.
So we would like to end up with this so-called sigmoid function.
First of all because it has the values between 0 and 1 it is not sensible to outliers and we are able
to kind of probabilities do given actions.
So basically this is what we are after.
This is why we don't like linear regression when dealing with classification problems.
And this is why we prefer logistic regression because we are able to assign probabilities to given outcomes.
So we have come to the conclusion that we have to use this so-called sigmoid function because it has
lots of lots of favorable properties.
So what is the sigmoid function.
The sigmoid function is equal to one divided by one plus each to the Parver of minus x.
This is the sigmoid function.
We are able to solve the problems we have discussed here.
OK.
So it has the value between 0 and 1 hence it can be interpreted as probability.
OK so we the hap of this sigmoid function we are able to assign probabilities to given actions.
OK so in this case the p x is the probability of default given as Blands so that p x is equal to the
probability that the why is the close to on.
What does it mean the y in this case is whether the client is able to pay back the loan.
It can be one and it can be zero.
So if we want to calculate the probability that the client will be able to pay back the loan.
That's why the why is Eco's still wanted it given x goes to the balance.
So basically we would like to calculate the probability that the client is able to pay back the loan.
If we know the balance on the credit card.
OK so we just have to use this formula that the probability of this action that the client has a given
balance and he or she will be able to pay back the loan the probability of this action is ECOs Tijuana
divided by 1 plus E to the Parver of minus beater's zero plus veto times X where X Y Z goes to the balance
on the credit card.
OK so these be the perimeter as again are the model parameters.
It is the same as we have discussed for linear regression.
Basically the aim of logistic regression is to find out the optimal values for these parameters.
There are several ways to fit the model with the help of gradient descent or with the map of maximum
likelihood method.
Okay.
And by the way we can define the so-called logit transformation.
So the nature of the logarithm of the X divided by one of mine SBX.
What is the P x.
P X is Eco's Tijuana divided by 1 plus E to the power of minus beat is 0 plus B to one times x.
Basically this is the sigmoid function and the logi transformation is equal to zero.
Plus B to 1 times x.
So the point of the logic transformation is to make linear.
So logistic regression is a linear regression on the logit transformation.
If we apply the logic to transformation on a P X divided by one minor speakes we end up with this formula
which is very very similar to linear regression.
That's why we can say that logistic regression is a linear regression on the logit transformation.
You can pose the question that ok how to find these vitis zero and better one parameters.
Again we can use gradient descent or a maximum likelihood method usually for logistic regression.
We use maximum likelihood method.
That's why we are going to talk a lot more about it in the coming lectures.
But what's very important that it is so low Taoistic regression is a generalized linear model not because
the estimated probability of the response is linear.
So if we take a look at it this function.
Of course it is not linear but because the logic Brant's formation of the estimated probability.
So the nature of a logarithm of the agues divide by 1 minus B yeggs this is the Lotti transformation.
So the Lotti transformation of the estimated probability response is a linear function of the parameters.
Because as you can see if we make the logi transformation we end up with a linear function of paramita
and B to 0 plus B to 1 times x.
It is very similar to linear regression.
Basically it is a linear combination of x values and bita values.
OK we can talk about simple logistic regression and multinomial logistic regression if we have just
a single experimenter.
For example in this case x is the balance on the credit card.
We have a simple explanitory variable and we would like to approximate whether the output will be 1
or 0 1.
If the client is able to pay back the loan 0 if the client is not able to pay back the loan.
This is called default.
So for example balance on the credit card in this case we have to use this formula 1 plus E-2 the power
of mine is below zero plus B to 1 times X because we just have a single explanatory variable.
The balance on the credit card we can deal with the multinomial logistic regression where we have multiple
experimenter's.
For example we consider not just the balance on the credit card exclusively but at the age of the client
the gender of the client demographics loan it to income ratio and so on.
So in this case we have to use approximately the same formula with the sigmoid function but instead
of dealing with a single explanitory voluble we are going to have several varietals because we have
balance on credit card.
This is the X1 we have the age.
This is the X-2.
We have the gender.
This is X. sorry we have a loan to income ratio this is x4 and so on.
So we have to consider the linear combination of parameters and the D x x 20 variables accordingly balance
on credit card age gender demographics loan to income ratio and so on.
So it is very very similar to linear regression that we have a simple autistic regression with just
a single x parameter and multinomial logistic regression with multiple experimenters.
We have to use the same sigmoid function but we have to deal with just a single variable.
For simple logistic regression and multiple variables for malting amile logistic regression.
By the way it is a rule of thumb that usually we use logistic regression for binary classification.
So when there are two output glosses email is spam or not the client is sick or healthy.
Usually we dont use logistic regression for digit classification for example when there are 10 or both
classes or for example hand with 10 correct recognition when there are 26 output classes support vector
machines and they've based classifiers can do better.
So just a quick question is working fine for binary classification.
Thanks for watching.